bootnukem(1) -- purge /boot of old kernels
==========================================

## SYNOPSIS

`bootnukem` <br>
`bootnukem` `-d`|`--dry-run`<br>
`bootnukem` `-s`|`--scorch`<br>
`bootnukem` `-h`|`--help`<br>
`bootnukem` `-v`|`--version`

## DESCRIPTION

**bootnukem** removes unused kernel packages, saving space on /boot. A common
problem on stock Ubuntu distributions is a smallish volume mounted on /boot,
and tedious and error-prone methods for removing older kernels once the system
has rebooted into a newly installed kernel.

In its default mode, `bootnukem` will remove all kernel packages older than the
*currently running* kernel. If you've updated packages but not rebooted, you'll
likely have one or more newer kernel versions installed that haven't been
booted into. These will consume space on /boot.

## OPTIONS

  * `-d`, `--dry-run`:
    Don't purge kernels, just output which kernels *would* be removed.

  * `-s`, `--scorch`:
    Purge *all* kernels except the currently running kernel. Use this with caution!

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Show basic usage.

  * `-v`, `--version`:
    Display the version number only.

## EXAMPLES

Clean-as-you-go, preserving the running kernel and the newly-upgraded kernel:

    # aptitude safe-upgrade
    # bootnukem
    # reboot

Maximally clean /boot volume prior to kernel upgrade:

    # bootnukem --scorch
    # aptitude safe-upgrade
    # reboot

See which kernels bootnukem *would* remove:

    # bootnukem --scorch --dry-run

## DEPENDENCIES

**bootnukem** is written in Bash and depends on `apt-get`, `awk`, `df`, `dpkg`,
`sed`, and `update-grub`.

## CAVEATS

**bootnukem** is known to work on Ubuntu LTS releases. YMMV.

## COPYRIGHT

bootnukem is Copyright (C) 2016 Erich Smith <https://github.com/erichs>

## LICENSE

The MIT License (MIT)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
